---
layout: post
title: "20 Questions I need to Ask any programmer before I can guess what you're about"
date: 2013-06-14 16:03
comments: true
categories: 
---
What app do you wish you had been the one to make?  

If you could travel in time once would you go to the future or the past?  

If you could have any superpower what would it be?  

Which is better: owning a house or making your own hours?  

Which is better: owning a house or being your own boss?  

Which is better: being your own boss or working less?  

What physical thing does the world need more of?  

What cultural thing does the world need more of?  

What political thing does the world need more of?  

What does the programming world need more of?  

If you could create more of one of the above things which would it be?  

Which is worse: dying or getting paralyzed? 

Which is worse: one innocent person dying or 10 innocent people getting paralyzed?  

Which is worse: one innocent person dying or 10 million innocent people getting paralyzed?  

Which is worse: one asshole dying or 10 innocent people getting paralyzed?  

Which is worse: one innocent person dying  or 10 million assholes getting paralyzed?  

Which is worse: psychological suffering or physical suffering?  

Would you plant a chip in your brain that made it so you never forgot your passwords?  

Would you plant a chip in your brain that made it so you never forgot a name?  

Would you plant a chip in your brain that made it so you never forgot anything ever?  

Would you plant a chip in your brain that made you a better programmer?  

If you were offered immortality would you take it?
What if you had a +1 for immortality?  

How many years do you think it would take before you got bored of life?  

How do you think people would behave if they were immortal?  

Do you vote?  

Do you like to travel?  

Do you like to dance?